#summary Requirements and procedure to build WinDriver

!WinDriver uses [http://maven.apache.org/ Maven] as a build system. It consists of a hierarchy of Maven projects, and when you're set up correctly a single `mvn package` will build them all. 

This page will tell you what you need to get to that point.

= Components =

The most important subprojects are:

   * *windriver/client/java* - the Java client library for accessing !WinDriver
   * *windriver/ide* - the graphical tool for exploring !WinDriver. This uses the Java client library.
   * *windriver/rc* - the !WinDriver Remote Control (server). The RC includes a copy of the IDE, so that you can use it as an applet in your browser.

= Requirements =

To build any code, you will need:
   * [http://maven.apache.org/download.html Maven 2.2.1]. (Maven 3 may work, I'm not sure)

The Java client and the IDE are written in Java 6, so you will need:
   * [http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html Java SE 6 JDK]

The RC (and its other supporting components) are written in .NET and use Windows APIs, so you will need:
   * Windows XP or later
   * [http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/en/details.aspx?FamilyID=ab99342f-5d1a-413d-8319-81da479ab0d7&displaylang=en .NET Framework 3.5 SP1]. (If you have Visual Studio you may not need this)
   * [http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/en/details.aspx?FamilyID=c17ba869-9671-4330-a63e-1fd44e0e2505&displaylang=en Windows SDK for .NET Framework 3.5 SP1]

= Building =

   # Check out the code
   # From the checked-out directory, run `mvn install` (not `mvn package`, because of [http://jira.codehaus.org/browse/MDEP-291 this bug]).
   # The RC zip is found in packages/rc/target/
   # The Java client JAR is found in packages/client/java/target/
   # The IDE JAR is found in windriver/ide/target/

= Troubleshooting =

Here are the most common problems building !WinDriver:

_None yet. Please add a comment if you run into issues!_